refactor: :pencil2: simplify what is VCS basics, via editing pass (#242)
rostools/github-intro: pre-workshop/git-and-github.qmd

central concepts of the workshop and to working with files on GitHub in
general.

## What is version control? {#sec-what-is-version-control}

Our work usually involves interacting with or changing files in some way
or another. These files can be anything from text documents, to images,
to code. When we change files, we may want to track what was changed and
how they change over time. This tracking changes to files is known as
*version control*.

> Version control can very useful for many reasons. For example, you may
> want to track changes so you can revert to an earlier change you made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version control can very useful for many reasons. For example, you may
want to be able to revert to an earlier version of your file.
```

> When you collaborate with others on a project, this is especially

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you collaborate with others on a project, version control is especially
```

useful, as everyone can track who and what was changed in the files you

> work together on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collaborate on.
```

But version control is also useful when you are working mostly alone on
a project, as we humans tend to forget things. For instance, you may
wonder why you made a certain change or what the file looked like at a

> certain point in time by going back to that version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certain point in time. Version control can help you with this by enabling you to see what was changed in your file and when (called the "history" of your file) and enabling go back and look at earlier versions of your files.
```
Might be a bit verbose.

> You may have used a file's internal "track changes", like in Word. At

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may have used a file's internal "track changes" features, like in Word, or at
```

the file level (not when opening it), you may have "tracked changes"
informally by saving multiple versions of a file with different names,
like in the example image below.

![File naming in a commonly used *informal* 'version
control'.](/images/informal-version-control.jpg){#fig-informal-version-control
fig-alt="A screenshot of a file explorer showing multiple versions of different files."}

Does the above image look familiar? While it may exaggerate what some
people's 'versioning' looks like, it is the most common approach people

> use to "version control".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use to "version control" their files.
```

This "informal" way to do version control isn't ideal because it

> involves multiple copies of the same file. It makes it difficult to keep

Reviewer: ```suggestion
involves multiple copies of the same file; it makes it difficult to keep
```

track of specific changes and find the right version of the files.

> Having multiple versions of the same file as different names, as in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having multiple versions of the same file with slight modifications under different names, as in the
```

> image, really highlights that it is hard to manually track file changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image above, really highlights that it is hard to manually track file changes
```

> and that there is a need for version control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and that there is a need for more formal version control.
```
